0.2.54 (unreleased)
-------------------

- Added canonical repository class names:
  ``PostQuerySnapshot``, ``PostDetailContext``, ``BlogIndexContext``,
  ``FeedContext``, and ``EpisodeFeedContext``.
- Added canonical repository serialization APIs:
  ``serialize_audio``/``deserialize_audio``,
  ``serialize_video``/``deserialize_video``,
  ``serialize_image``/``deserialize_image``,
  ``serialize_blog``/``deserialize_blog``,
  ``serialize_post``/``deserialize_post``,
  ``serialize_episode``/``deserialize_episode``,
  and ``serialize_transcript``/``deserialize_transcript``.
- **Breaking change:** removed legacy repository class aliases
  ``QuerysetData``, ``PostDetailRepository``, ``BlogIndexRepository``,
  ``FeedRepository``, and ``EpisodeFeedRepository``.
- **Breaking change:** removed legacy serialization aliases
  ``audio_to_dict``, ``video_to_dict``, ``image_to_dict``,
  ``blog_to_dict``/``blog_from_data``, ``post_to_dict``,
  ``episode_to_dict``, and ``transcript_to_dict``.
- Canonical names are now the only supported API surface for repository
  classes and serialization helpers.
- Repository hardening pass:
  - removed dead `PostQuerySnapshot.create_from_post_queryset(..., is_podcast=...)` API surface and dead branch
  - fixed repository-layer import coupling (`HtmxHttpRequest`/`PostFilterset`) by moving to type-only/local imports
  - guarded `add_site_raw` SQL fallback for empty-site rows (`fetchone() is None`)
  - corrected media ID aliases to use `set[int]`
  - removed dead `CastBlock` type alias and `Site` package re-export
  - narrowed transcript exception handling to avoid masking `AttributeError`
  - added `EpisodeFeedContext` to model reference docs
  - removed duplicate URL computation in `data_for_blog_cachable` by serializing URL maps in `add_queryset_data`
  - fixed `FeedContext.create_from_django_models` to handle `Site.find_for_request(request) is None`
- Secured media detail API authorization:
  - `VideoDetailView` and `AudioDetailView` now scope object lookup to `request.user`, preventing cross-user retrieve/delete.
  - Added regression tests for owner and non-owner GET/DELETE behavior, including unauthenticated DELETE responses.
- Hardened styleguide helper account setup:
  - the styleguide user is now forced to `set_unusable_password()`, `is_active=False`, and removed from the `Moderators` group.
  - added regression tests to guarantee the styleguide account remains non-login and de-privileged.
- Fixed request-state leakage in ``Post.get_context()`` by avoiding mutation
  of the page instance (``owner``/``page_url``); request-specific values are
  now applied to a context-local page object instead.
- Fixed rich-text internal page-link cache isolation by replacing the
  process-global ``PageLinkHandlerWithCache.cache`` dict with context-local
  storage, preventing cross-request/thread cache leakage during concurrent
  rendering while preserving existing link-resolution behavior.
- Hardened ``Audio.save()`` persistence flow by wrapping enrichment in a
  database transaction and collapsing up to three writes into one initial save
  plus at most one targeted follow-up update, reducing partial-update risk
  while preserving duration and file-size metadata behavior.
- Fixed ``Video._create_poster()`` file-handle lifecycle by closing the
  ``mkstemp`` descriptor, context-managing poster file reads, and always
  cleaning up the temporary poster file; added regression tests for success,
  save-failure, and missing-temp-file cleanup paths.
- Fixed stale settings reads in ``cast.appsettings`` and ``cast.renditions``
  by resolving settings at runtime so ``@override_settings`` changes are
  respected after module import.
- Aligned test ``INSTALLED_APPS`` with shipped ``CAST_APPS`` by reusing
  ``cast.apps.CAST_APPS``, ensuring ``rest_framework``, ``django_htmx``, and
  ``wagtail.api.v2`` are present in tests and adding regression checks to
  prevent future app-list drift.
- Hardened ``media_replace`` with safe defaults: it now requires explicit
  ``--yes`` confirmation for destructive writes, supports non-destructive
  previews via ``--dry-run``, and reports per-file operations plus summary
  counts for planned/replaced/skipped/errors.
- Added new Django system checks for configuration safety:
  ``cast.E002`` validates ``cast.comments.apps.CastCommentsConfig`` is listed
  before ``django_comments`` in ``INSTALLED_APPS``, and ``cast.E003`` validates
  all middleware listed in ``cast.apps.CAST_MIDDLEWARE`` are present in
  ``settings.MIDDLEWARE``.
- Hardened ``select_theme`` POST redirects by validating ``next`` with
  ``url_has_allowed_host_and_scheme`` against the current host/scheme and
  falling back to the local select-theme URL when ``next`` is empty or unsafe.
- Fixed runtime comment setting lookups so ``cast.comments`` form/helper CSS and
  exclude-field settings are resolved lazily instead of freezing at import time.
- Fixed the comments fallback ``CRISPY_TEMPLATE_PACK`` default to ``bootstrap4``
  so AJAX validation errors still render when projects rely on django-cast's
  built-in crispy setup without redefining that setting.
- Pinned the CI ``uv`` installation step to ``0.10.2`` for more predictable
  workflow behavior.
- Hardened ``recalc_video_posters`` with progress output, per-video error
  handling, and completion summaries so one broken video no longer aborts the
  entire command.
- Replaced mutable class-level fallback repository dicts in ``blocks.py`` with
  per-instance mappings.
- Reduced settings drift by making ``tests.settings`` import shared defaults
  from ``cast.settings`` and keep only explicit test-specific overrides.
- Hardened ``media_stale`` so cleanup now preserves live ``Audio`` and
  ``Transcript`` assets instead of misclassifying them as stale.
- Made the optional theme-template contract more forgiving by falling back
  to ``cast/plain`` when a discovered theme omits ``transcript.html`` or
  ``gallery_modal.html``.
- Added ``just test-slow`` so contributors can run only the intentionally
  slower integration/dev-surface tests that complement ``just test-fast``.
- Restricted ``GET /api/comment_training_data/`` to staff users so comment
  training exports are no longer exposed to arbitrary authenticated users.
- Made slug-based feed, transcript, and meta endpoints site-scoped so
  multisite installs resolve pages within the current site tree instead of
  failing on duplicate slugs. These lookups now intentionally stay limited
  to live pages.
- Hardened ``sync_renditions --blog-slug`` to raise ``CommandError`` when a
  slug is missing or ambiguous instead of silently targeting the wrong blog.
- Fixed ``Video.save()`` follow-up poster persistence so ``force_insert``
  and ``objects.create()`` paths no longer trigger a duplicate insert.
- Hardened the gallery modal view to return a controlled 404 when the
  requested image was deleted after the page HTML was rendered.

Migration mapping (old -> new):

=========================  ==========================
Removed                    Replacement
=========================  ==========================
``QuerysetData``           ``PostQuerySnapshot``
``PostDetailRepository``   ``PostDetailContext``
``BlogIndexRepository``    ``BlogIndexContext``
``FeedRepository``         ``FeedContext``
``EpisodeFeedRepository``  ``EpisodeFeedContext``
``audio_to_dict``          ``serialize_audio``
``video_to_dict``          ``serialize_video``
``image_to_dict``          ``serialize_image``
``blog_to_dict``           ``serialize_blog``
``blog_from_data``         ``deserialize_blog``
``post_to_dict``           ``serialize_post``
``episode_to_dict``        ``serialize_episode``
``transcript_to_dict``     ``serialize_transcript``
=========================  ==========================
