0.2.52 (2026-01-09)
-------------------

Changes:

- Expose ``comments_enabled`` on Blog and Podcast pages in the Wagtail admin.
- Expose podcast metadata fields (``itunes_categories``, ``keywords``, ``explicit``) in the Wagtail admin.
- Fix inline-uploaded images missing in draft preview rendering.
- Fix HTML validation issues in built-in Bootstrap 4 and plain templates.
- Render HTMX attributes as ``data-hx-*`` so validators accept them.
- Clean up filters markup by removing invalid date placeholders and facet label bindings.
- Provide valid gallery modal placeholders and unique image IDs.
- Fix gallery navigation for duplicate images in default and HTMX layouts.
- Fix gallery rendering in the plain theme by adding plain gallery templates.
- Avoid extra queries when evaluating comment settings by using repository data.
- Fix ``last_build_date`` to avoid unnecessary Blog lookups and allow cached values.
- Preserve Podcast fields in cached repository data to avoid extra fetches in feeds.
- Cache site lookups during feed rendering to eliminate remaining queries.
- Use blog/podcast subtitles for ``itunes:subtitle`` in podcast feeds.
- Add a max-1200x1200 Podlove poster rendition and expose ``cover_image_poster_url`` in the pages API.
- Index cover image and body image alt text for post search.
- Show a visible error message when the Podlove embed script fails to load.
- Document guidance for locally patching the Podlove subscribe button bundle.
- Remove legacy CoreAPI schema settings and schema URL wiring.
