0.2.58 (unreleased)
-------------------

- Changed Wagtail-admin Voxhelm transcript generation to report missing
  ``CAST_VOXHELM_API_BASE`` / ``CAST_VOXHELM_API_KEY`` plus invalid boolean or
  numeric configuration as admin error messages instead of server errors.
- Clarified Voxhelm token handling in the Wagtail settings UI and deployment
  docs: an existing token keeps the password field blank by design, and sites
  can keep tokens in deployment-managed environment variables.
- Moved episode transcript generation status out of the Wagtail page action
  menu and into the episode edit form so status text and edit links no longer
  overlap the save dropdown.
- Added transcript samples and timestamp seek controls to the Wagtail
  transcript speaker-mapping form so editors can identify diarized speakers
  before assigning them to episode contributors.
- Transcript speaker mapping now also rewrites matching WebVTT voice labels,
  so feed-linked WebVTT transcripts stay in sync with mapped Podlove and DOTe
  speaker fields.
- Fixed episode publishing from the Wagtail editor by no longer rendering a
  hidden ``action-publish`` field that could shadow Wagtail's publish button.
- Fixed episode contributor editing so links for a contributor created after
  the episode edit form was opened become selectable without first saving and
  reloading the episode draft.
- Added contributor defaults for episode assignments: contributors now carry a
  default role, and the first ordered contributor link is preselected when a
  contributor is added to an episode.
- Voxhelm transcript generation now sends the episode contributor count as a
  diarization speaker-count hint and includes it in the task reference, so
  regenerating multi-speaker episodes can force the expected number of
  speakers. Episode-level generation uses that episode's contributors;
  audio-level generation only sends this hint when the audio belongs to exactly
  one episode.
- Audio objects now have a transcript diarization mode with ``inherit``,
  ``enabled``, and ``disabled`` states. Disabled mode submits future Voxhelm
  jobs without diarization or speaker-count hints and hides stored speaker
  labels from public transcript output without rewriting the stored transcript
  files.
- Public transcript and Podlove player output now sanitize speaker metadata
  against live episode contributors. Regenerated transcript text can still
  appear immediately for shared audio, but draft-only contributor names and
  unmapped diarization labels are hidden from player JSON, transcript JSON,
  HTML transcripts, feed-linked PodcastIndex output, and applicable WebVTT
  output. Public transcript endpoints expose no speaker labels when the
  transcript is not connected to a live episode yet.
- PodcastIndex transcript JSON now returns ``404`` when a transcript points to
  a missing DOTe file instead of returning an empty ``200`` response. Wagtail
  episode previews also omit live-only public transcript links, so draft
  previews do not expose transcript URLs that would 404.
- Added private contributor voice references: contributors can store reviewed
  clean-solo clips or source ranges into existing audio as private,
  admin-only known-speaker reference material. References require confirmed
  consent before approval, support a protected ``"cast_voice_references"``
  ``STORAGES`` alias for uploaded clips, and are excluded from public
  contributor APIs, feeds, theme context, repository serialization, and public
  transcript output. This first slice only adds private storage; it does not
  send references to Voxhelm or change public transcript output.
- Added a known-speaker recognition opt-in (``CAST_VOXHELM_KNOWN_SPEAKER_ENABLED``
  or the site-level Wagtail Voxhelm setting). When enabled, diarized Voxhelm
  jobs for an episode also send the approved voice references of that episode's
  expected contributors as known-speaker reference material (source ranges into
  existing audio or uploaded clips), never public profile URLs. Hidden
  contributors are excluded unless a reference explicitly opts in.
- Voxhelm-returned known-speaker suggestions are stored as a private
  ``Transcript.speakers`` sidecar (per-segment candidates, confidence, margin,
  uncertainty, and raw diarization labels) in protected storage. They are
  reviewable editorial state and are excluded from public transcript output.
  Known-speaker results stay suggestions: public speaker identities are not
  shown until reviewed and approved.
- Added a known-speaker review panel to the Wagtail transcript edit view. It
  shows the confident/uncertain suggestion counts and the confident speaker
  distribution so editors can see uncertainty before approving. An "Approve and
  apply confident suggestions" action writes only confident (non-uncertain)
  speaker names into the public Podlove and DOTe transcript output, matched to
  segments by start time. By default, uncertain segments between known speakers
  are smoothed by carrying the surrounding confident speaker forward, so the
  public transcript reads continuously instead of showing speaker-less
  paragraphs; pass ``smooth=False`` to label only confident segments. The
  private suggestion sidecar (including the uncertainty flags) is preserved for
  audit and re-application.
- Added a Wagtail transcript voice-reference candidate picker. Diarized Podlove
  transcripts now derive clean solo source-range candidates grouped by resolved
  speaker/contributor context, audition them with bounded playback in the
  existing transcript audio player, and create pending or explicitly
  consent-gated approved ``ContributorVoiceReference`` rows without editors
  typing raw ``start_seconds`` / ``end_seconds`` for the normal workflow.
