0.2.57 (2026-05-22)
-------------------

- Added Voxhelm speaker diarization configuration via
  ``CAST_VOXHELM_DIARIZATION_ENABLED`` and the site-level Wagtail Voxhelm
  settings. The default remains disabled and the Voxhelm ``diarization`` job
  payload is only sent when explicitly enabled. Enable it only when the Voxhelm
  backend has diarization configured; full-episode diarization can be slow and
  should run through the transcript worker. Diarized jobs use a distinct
  ``task_ref`` suffix so they do not reuse earlier non-diarized Voxhelm jobs.
- Added podcast episode contributors with contributor snippets, ordered
  host/guest assignments, episode-page context, and item-level
  ``podcast:person`` feed output. The uniqueness constraint on episode
  contributors covers ``(episode, contributor, role)``, so the same person
  may be credited as both host and guest on one episode.
- Contributor avatars are rendered through a ``fill-80x80|format-webp``
  rendition on episode pages and in ``podcast:person`` feed items, and the
  rendition URL is precomputed in the post repository so detail and feed
  rendering remain query-free, including mixed post/episode querysets.
- Added a top-level Wagtail admin menu item for contributors.
- The episode contributor link field in the Wagtail admin now updates per
  contributor assignment and only offers links belonging to the selected
  contributor.
- Added Wagtail transcript editing support for mapping diarization speaker
  labels such as ``Speaker 1`` to an episode contributor. The admin workflow
  rewrites Podlove and DOTe transcript speaker fields while leaving WebVTT
  unchanged.
- Transcript speaker mapping now uses draft episode contributor assignments,
  so editors can map speakers before publishing an unfinished episode.
- The Podlove player API (``/api/audios/podlove/<id>/``) now includes a
  top-level ``contributors`` list derived from non-blank transcript
  ``speaker`` and ``voice`` labels in first-appearance order. Podlove Web
  Player resolves transcript segment speakers against these contributor
  entries and renders their names. The existing ``transcripts`` payload is
  unchanged and the Podlove transcript file is read once per response.
- Fixed the Wagtail page action menu styling for transcript generation while
  keeping transcript status and edit links visible to editors.
- Full page ``Post.serve()`` calls and Wagtail previews now expose
  ``render_detail=True`` to templates by default. Callers can still pass
  ``render_detail=False`` explicitly for overview-style rendering.
- Feed repository construction now primes ``lastBuildDate`` from the newest
  visible post in the feed queryset instead of relying on queryset iteration
  order.
- Custom themes that override episode body templates should render
  ``episode_contributors`` or include ``cast/contributors.html`` to show public
  episode credits.
