0.2.61 (unreleased)
-------------------

- Added optional podcast publishing metadata: reusable podcast-scoped seasons,
  episode numbers, and explicit episode types. Podcast feeds now emit matching
  iTunes and Podcasting 2.0 item tags when metadata is present while preserving
  existing UUID-based RSS GUIDs and omitting episode type for blank values.
- Added opt-in automatic podcast episode numbering per podcast. Blank full
  episodes can now receive the next podcast-scoped number on first real publish;
  draft saves and future scheduling approvals do not consume numbers, manual
  numbers stay authoritative, and RSS GUIDs remain UUID-based.
- Added opt-in anonymous comment self-editing and deletion. With
  ``CAST_COMMENTS_ALLOW_AUTHOR_EDITS = True`` and a server-side session backend,
  an author can edit or delete their own comment from the same browser until
  someone replies or the session expires. Edits are re-moderated (and flagged
  ``(edited)``) and deletion is a soft delete that staff can restore from the
  Django admin. Enabling the feature sets a functional session cookie for
  previously cookieless commenters. See
  :ref:`CAST_COMMENTS_ALLOW_AUTHOR_EDITS <cast_comments_allow_author_edits>`.
- Added a session-authenticated programmatic content editing API
  (``/api/editor/``). Trusted clients can list the blogs and podcasts they may
  add to (``GET /api/editor/parents/``), create a draft ``Post`` from a
  structured ``overview`` block list (``POST /api/editor/posts/``), and read the
  draft back with normalized authoring source (``GET /api/editor/posts/{id}/``).
  Drafts can also be revised with ``PATCH /api/editor/posts/{id}/`` by sending
  the returned ``latest_revision_id`` as ``base_revision_id``; stale bases return
  ``409 revision_conflict`` instead of overwriting newer edits. The API stays
  authentication-mechanism agnostic — it requires an authenticated user and
  authorizes every action with Wagtail page permissions. Create and update stay
  draft-only and reject ``publish: true``; draft posts can now be published
  through the explicit ``POST /api/editor/posts/{id}/publish/`` action, which
  requires Wagtail publish permission and publishes the latest draft revision
  through Wagtail's revision path. Body blocks supported in this slice: heading,
  paragraph, code, image, gallery, audio, and video (media blocks reference
  media the caller may choose). The editor API now also supports the ``detail``
  body section, editor media list/upload endpoints for images, audio, and video,
  and upload collection discovery at ``/api/editor/media/collections/``.
  Audio/video editor uploads share a one-in-flight per-user lock, and editor
  audio probing is capped by a request-path budget so slow files fail with
  ``probe_timeout`` instead of hanging the request.
- Extended the editor API to podcast episodes with draft-only
  ``POST /api/editor/episodes/``, ``GET /api/editor/episodes/{id}/``, and
  ``PATCH /api/editor/episodes/{id}/``. Episodes reuse the post body, tags,
  categories, cover image, and revision/conflict handling, and add the
  episode-specific fields ``podcast_audio``, ``episode_number``,
  ``episode_type``, ``season``, ``keywords``, ``explicit``, and ``block``. The
  parent must be a ``cast.Podcast`` (a non-podcast parent is rejected), the
  ``season`` must belong to that podcast, and ``podcast_audio`` must be choosable
  by the caller. ``GET /api/editor/parents/`` now points podcasts at the episode
  create endpoint. Create and update stay draft-only and reject ``publish:
  true``; draft episodes are published through the explicit
  ``POST /api/editor/episodes/{id}/publish/`` action, which mirrors the post
  publish action and additionally requires a non-null ``podcast_audio`` to
  publish. That audio requirement is also enforced when an episode id is
  published through ``POST /api/editor/posts/{id}/publish/``, so it cannot be
  bypassed.
- The editor API now enforces optional per-action scopes for scoped-token
  authentication: reads need no scope, create/update/media uploads need a ``write``
  scope, and the publish actions need a ``publish`` scope, so a token can be restricted
  to draft-only. Session auth and unscoped tokens fall back to pure Wagtail permissions.
  Accepted scope strings are configurable via ``CAST_EDITOR_SCOPES``; a token missing the
  required scope gets ``403 insufficient_scope``. django-cast still imports no
  authentication provider.
- Added rendered draft preview endpoints for token-only editor workflows:
  ``GET /api/editor/posts/{id}/preview/`` and
  ``GET /api/editor/episodes/{id}/preview/`` return the latest editable revision
  as full themed ``text/html`` when the caller has edit permission, while errors
  keep the editor API JSON envelopes.
- Tightened Wagtail admin permissions for custom audio, video, and transcript
  views. Index, chooser, edit, and delete endpoints now use collection-scoped
  permission policies, and new ``choose_audio``, ``choose_video``, and
  ``choose_transcript`` permissions control chooser access.
- Added a dedicated ``STORAGES["cast_public_transcripts"]`` alias for public transcript
  artifacts (Podlove JSON, DOTe JSON, and WebVTT). Those files are publishable
  transcript output and no longer need ``cast_private_media``. For compatibility,
  django-cast still reads/writes them through an explicitly configured
  ``cast_private_media`` alias when ``cast_public_transcripts`` is omitted; otherwise
  they stay on default storage. Public transcript URLs continue to use the
  existing authorized and sanitized views.
- Voice-reference clips and known-speaker sidecar files no longer fall back to
  default public media storage when ``STORAGES["cast_voice_references"]`` is
  omitted. They now use the private media backend, and a migration copies
  existing default-storage files into private storage. Voxhelm known-speaker
  handoff now skips uploaded clips on no-URL private storage instead of exposing
  or crashing on direct storage URLs; source-range references continue to work.
- Audio and video uploads are now rejected before ffprobe/ffmpeg when their
  extension, content type, container signature, or configured size limit is not
  supported. New ``CAST_AUDIO_UPLOAD_MAX_BYTES`` and
  ``CAST_VIDEO_UPLOAD_MAX_BYTES`` settings control the size limits.
- The editor media upload lock now uses owner tokens, defaults to a 2-hour TTL,
  and can be tuned with ``CAST_EDITOR_MEDIA_UPLOAD_LOCK_SECONDS``. Multi-worker
  deployments should use a shared Django cache backend for process-wide upload
  throttling; a worker crash can leave the per-user lock in place until the TTL
  expires.
- Editor media probing can be tuned with ``CAST_EDITOR_MEDIA_PROBE_SECONDS``.
  Required audio probe failures now return ``probe_failed``/HTTP 422 with
  cleanup instead of escaping as server errors. Optional chapter extraction
  during audio saves is now best-effort in both the editor API and Wagtail
  admin: failed or timed-out chapter probes are logged and the audio is saved
  without auto-imported chapter marks, while malformed individual chapter
  entries are skipped and valid entries are kept.
- ``media_stale --delete`` now only reports and deletes files under known
  django-cast/Wagtail-managed media prefixes, and its referenced-file scan
  includes private transcript speaker sidecars and contributor voice clips.
- ``media_replace --yes`` now stages replacements before writing the requested
  production key and no longer deletes an existing production object before the
  replacement save succeeds. If a storage backend would auto-save an existing
  target as a different name, the generated file is removed and the original is
  left untouched.
- The Podlove player web component no longer falls back to a mutable third-party
  CDN script when ``data-embed`` is missing. Themes must provide a first-party
  embed script URL; missing configuration now fails closed in the player UI.
- Updated the JavaScript toolchain to Vite 8, removing the vulnerable esbuild
  dev-server dependency reported by ``npm audit``. Frontend builds now require
  Node.js 20.19+ or 22.12+.
