0.2.53 (unreleased)
-------------------

Example project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Added a bootstrap script to rebuild the example DB, create demo content, and ensure a superuser exists.
- Added a `Procfile.dev` + `just dev` shortcut to run Django and Vite dev servers together.
- Documented the Bootstrap5 theme setup, demo data bootstrap, and dev server workflows.
- Added a full-page theme selector for non-HTMX requests in the example app.
- Ensure the Bootstrap5 example navbar loads the real theme selector via HTMX.
- Ensure the Bootstrap4 example navbar loads the theme selector so switching back works.
- Ensure the Plain example theme includes the theme selector for switching.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Rewrote search documentation to accurately describe available filter
  parameters, validation rules, and facet behavior.
- Updated API docs for `/api/facet_counts/` and `/api/facet_counts/{id}/` with accurate legacy and `mode=modal`
  response shapes.
- Clarified development visual testing workflow: use `/cast/styleguide/` for component preview and
  `/styleguide-blog/` for end-to-end search/filter/facet checks.
- Clarified `CAST_FILTERSET_FACETS` defaults and how it controls modal facet groups.
- Added a concise architecture section describing the search/filter/facet data flow across blog pages and facet APIs.
- Corrected older API reference mismatches (auth URL examples, serializer response examples, theme update payload key,
  multipart upload field names, and `pageSize` pagination parameter naming).
- Added explicit docs for conjunctive vs disjunctive facet counting, including practical URL examples and rationale
  for legacy vs `mode=modal` behavior.

Developer data helpers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- `create_user` now reuses existing users to avoid duplicate-username errors during demo setup.
- `create_audio` now populates an m4a file by default for example content.

Styleguide
~~~~~~~~~~
- Added a theme-aware styleguide route with demo data, theme switching, and fallback handling.
- Added dedicated gallery/audio/video sections and seeded threaded comments for better visual coverage.
- Added a styleguide-only CSS layer to clarify section spacing without touching production templates.
- Added optional remote media settings for pulling real-world images and transcripts into the styleguide.
- Reduced the default transcript excerpt length to a few segments for a more compact preview.
- Allow the styleguide to reference a remote video URL without downloading the file.
- Added a management command to prefetch styleguide demo media and renditions.
- Added a toggle to skip styleguide rendition generation during page render.
- Reduced the default number of transcript segments shown in the styleguide.
- Fixed the Bootstrap4 styleguide gallery modal by filtering remote gallery blocks to theme-specific markup and tightening the gallery click handling.
- Added styleguide templates and example settings to preview the cast-vue theme when installed.
- Allowed Wagtail API pages requests to override template base dir and render-for-feed flags for the cast-vue styleguide preview.
- Ensure styleguide-rendered galleries generate missing renditions even when remote gallery HTML is unavailable.
- Ensure the styleguide media post renders gallery thumbnails by generating missing renditions.
- Refresh styleguide media post renditions in the repository so Bootstrap5 gallery thumbnails render correctly.

Feeds
~~~~~
- Add a feed detail page at ``<slug>/feed/`` that lists blog RSS, podcast feeds
  (4 audio formats in RSS + Atom), and an Apple Podcasts subscribe link.
- Navbar RSS icon now links to the feed detail page via a new ``feed_detail``
  follow-links key; ``rss`` key is preserved pointing to the raw XML feed.
- Custom themes without ``feed_detail.html`` fall back to the plain theme.
- Add ``apple_podcasts`` as a supported key in ``CAST_FOLLOW_LINKS`` settings.

Themes
~~~~~~
- Allow `?theme=` or `?template_base_dir=` to temporarily override the active theme for a request.
- Render the theme selector in Bootstrap4 navigation and pass selector context from blog pages.
- Populate gallery prev/next attributes so the cast-vue theme can navigate between gallery images.
- Ensure Podlove players initialize against per-instance hosts to avoid collisions when the same audio appears multiple times.
- Add theme-aware Podlove player configuration tokens with optional light/dark overrides.
- Always render the Bootstrap5 theme selector and consolidate color mode selection into a single dropdown.
- Add follow-link support and Bootstrap5 navbar icons for RSS/social profiles.
- Introduce Bootstrap5 spacing tokens for list/detail rhythm and apply them to list/detail templates.
- Store theme choices cache as an immutable tuple and return a fresh list copy to prevent accidental mutation.
- Fix double DB hit in the theme context processor by passing the site default as a fallback.
- Narrow context processor exception handling to DB/lookup errors instead of blanket ``Exception``.
- Fix Podlove player dark-mode loading flashes by forcing dark player config in dark mode and applying dark iframe/container fallback colors while the iframe bootstraps.

Pagination
~~~~~~~~~~
- Fix scroll position landing mid-content after htmx pagination swap by changing
  ``show:top`` to ``show:window:top``.
- Add View Transitions API support (``transition:true``) for paginating,
  using explicit ``#paging-area`` keyframes with graceful fallback in
  unsupported browsers. Animation is disabled for users who prefer reduced
  motion.
- Add ``hx-sync="#paging-area:replace"`` to pagination links so rapid clicks
  cancel in-flight requests instead of racing.
- Switch pagination history updates from ``hx-replace-url`` to ``hx-push-url``
  so browser back/forward steps through paginated pages.
- Update bundled htmx from 2.0.0-beta4 to 2.0.8.
- Scroll to top before HTMX view-transition snapshots for ``#paging-area`` swaps
  so paginated content does not overlap behind sticky navigation during the fade.
- Disable root view-transition animation so only ``#paging-area`` cross-fades,
  preventing full-page overlap artifacts around sticky navigation.
- Switch pagination transition from old/new cross-fade to new-only fade-in by
  hiding the old ``#paging-area`` snapshot, removing mid-transition double
  exposure artifacts.
- Skip View Transition animation for deep-scroll pagination clicks and fall back
  to instant HTMX swap + top scroll, avoiding the last visible jump under the
  sticky navbar on long pages.

Images
~~~~~~
- Gallery and image templates now link to optimized Wagtail renditions instead of
  original uploads, avoiding multi-megabyte downloads when users click through.
- Keep the Bootstrap gallery modal responsive on click while reserving image
  space and showing a loading indicator to prevent placeholder wobble.
