0.2.56 (2026-05-12)
-------------------

- Require Wagtail 7.0 LTS or newer within Wagtail 7 and allow
  ``django-tasks>=0.7,<0.13`` so installs can resolve against both Wagtail
  7.0 LTS and the latest Wagtail 7 release.
- Move ``django-tasks-db`` to the optional ``transcript-worker`` extra because
  ``django-tasks-db`` 0.12 requires ``django-tasks`` 0.12, while Wagtail 7.0
  uses ``django-tasks`` 0.7. Core installs continue to support Wagtail 7.0;
  sites using the database-backed transcript worker need a newer compatible
  Wagtail/django-tasks combination.
- Align the default tox matrix with the supported Wagtail range by testing
  Wagtail 7.0 LTS and the latest Wagtail 7 release.
- Replace any hand-managed ``django_tasks.backends.database`` entry in
  ``INSTALLED_APPS`` with ``django_tasks_db`` when using the
  ``transcript-worker`` extra. ``django_tasks_db`` is no longer included in
  ``CAST_APPS``; sites using the database-backed transcript worker must add it
  to ``INSTALLED_APPS`` themselves.
- Remove legacy ``ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT`` keys from documented production
  ``TASKS`` settings for the ``transcript-worker`` extra; ``django-tasks``
  0.12+ no longer uses that option. Wagtail 7.0 LTS still pulls
  ``django-tasks`` 0.7, where the immediate backend uses that setting.
- Allow ``modelsearch>=1.2.2,<1.4`` so full-text search remains compatible
  across Wagtail 7.0 and newer Wagtail 7 resolver requirements.
- Replace the raw ``cloc`` plus ``sloccount`` ``just loc`` recipe with the
  shared ``slopscope`` line-count workflow via a local editable checkout. The
  command keeps ``cloc`` semantics when ``cloc`` is available and now reports
  language, source/test, area, and directory summaries instead of the old
  ``sloccount`` folder-only appendix.
