0.2.64 (unreleased)
-------------------

- Move post-description rendering into ``cast.presenters.render_post_description`` and have feeds and rendered
  Wagtail API fields use the presenter directly. ``Post.get_description()`` remains as a compatible wrapper.
- Add a bounded, facet-aware title-prefix suggestion endpoint for optional theme typeahead interfaces. Suggestions
  include public post destinations only, use recent-first ordering, and keep existing full-text form search unchanged.
- Add an authenticated editor API lookup for one post by exact direct parent id and slug. It returns the normal
  draft-aware editor shape only when the caller can edit the matching direct child, uses the existing scope and
  structured error rules, follows unpublished slug edits, rejects ambiguous/duplicate query input, and adds no
  list/search or publishing behavior. A transactional parent no-op write serializes parent-scoped creation on
  PostgreSQL and SQLite so competing same-slug creators converge through the existing duplicate-slug response and
  lookup contract.
- Add the optional ``require_unpublished`` precondition to post and episode editor PATCH requests. When enabled,
  published pages are rejected with ``409 published_post``; live-state and revision checks are serialized with the
  draft revision write so draft-only automation cannot race a concurrent publish.
- Add ``previous_revision_id`` to the shared post and episode editor response shape. It identifies the immediately
  preceding revision for that page (or ``null`` for the first revision), giving crash-recovering clients content-free
  evidence that the serialized latest revision is the single page revision after an expected base without assuming
  globally consecutive revision ids. It is recovery/concurrency evidence, not authorization.
- Move Post StreamField media synchronization and rendition preparation to the explicit
  ``cast.post_media.prepare_post_media`` service. Wagtail previews and every publication path call the service;
  direct programmatic ``Post.save()`` calls now perform no media I/O unless their legacy ``sync_media`` or
  ``create_renditions`` keyword is explicitly enabled. Programmatic body updates should save first and then call
  ``prepare_post_media(post)``.
- Move audio duration/file-size extraction, video poster generation, and transcript speaker-mapping synchronization
  to explicit transactional services in ``cast.media_derivation``. Built-in admin and API upload paths call them
  automatically; plain programmatic ``Audio.save()``, ``Video.save()``, and ``Transcript.save()`` calls now persist
  fields without media probing or derived-data I/O.
