0.2.62 (unreleased)
-------------------

- Set ``TERM=xterm-256color`` inside tox test environments so local runs
  launched from Ghostty do not print missing ``xterm-ghostty`` terminfo
  warnings.
- Point the test settings' extra static files directory at the shipped
  ``src/cast/static`` tree so tox migrations no longer emit Django's
  ``staticfiles.W004`` warning.
- Allow editor API post and episode draft ``PATCH`` requests to send the
  optimistic concurrency token as a strict ``If-Match: "<revision id>"`` header
  instead of JSON ``base_revision_id``.
- Avoid deep-copying Podlove and DOTe transcript JSON during public speaker
  sanitization when all speaker labels are already public or when the transcript
  contains no speaker metadata.
- Fix ``Blog.last_build_date`` crashing with ``IndexError`` on blogs and
  podcasts without any published posts; it now falls back to the page's first
  publication date or the current time, so feeds for empty blogs render.
- Fix the podcast feed's RSS ``<category>`` element: it now emits the first
  entry of the blog's ``keywords`` field when keywords are set (the previous
  guard checked a nonexistent ``categories`` attribute and always produced an
  empty category).
- Declare explicit ``permission_classes = (AllowAny,)`` on the public API views
  (Podlove detail, player config, facet counts, theme list, theme update) so
  intended anonymous access no longer depends on the DRF project default and
  cannot be broken by a host site setting restrictive default permissions.
- Remove dead tooling files (``bootstrap.md``, ``.travis.yml``, ``setup.cfg``,
  ``runtests.py``, ``javascript/jest.config.js``, ``command_lines.txt``); the
  ``commands.py`` ``test`` and ``mypy`` subcommands now invoke pytest and the
  configured mypy directly.
- Stop pinning the ``pytest-randomly`` seed so the test order actually
  randomizes, and fix the two test-isolation bugs this surfaced (a shared API
  client leaking session cookies between tests, and a monkeypatched
  ``USE_THREADEDCOMMENTS`` baking the wrong comment form base class when the
  forms module was first imported under the patch).
- Clean up packaging and type-check metadata: drop the contradictory MIT
  license classifier and a duplicated classifier, check types against Python
  3.11 (the support floor), and remove the legacy mypy django-stubs plugin
  table.
- Make ``Post.get_description`` side-effect free: the feed/social-card body
  template is now passed as a rendering argument instead of being stored on
  the instance, so a post or episode rendered after its description was
  generated no longer leaks the ``post_body.html`` partial into the full page
  render.
- Wrap ``Video.save`` poster generation in a transaction like ``Audio.save``,
  so a failed poster derivation no longer leaves a half-saved video row.
- Add ``sync_media`` and ``create_renditions`` keyword arguments to
  ``Post.save`` (both default ``True``) so bulk operations and migrations can
  skip media-derivation side effects explicitly.
- Move the ``HtmxHttpRequest`` typing class to ``cast.http_types``; it stays
  importable from ``cast.views`` and ``cast.views.htmx_helpers`` for
  backwards compatibility.
- Eliminate per-row queries when building blog index snapshots for mixed
  post/episode listings: page specialization and episode audio now load in
  bulk, so the query count no longer grows with the number of episodes, and
  a regression test guards the flat query count.
- Deduplicate the audio/video/transcript Wagtail-admin media views: the
  previously triplicated ``index``/``add``/``edit``/``delete``/``chooser``/
  ``chosen``/``chooser_upload`` views now share one parametrized
  implementation in ``cast.views.media``. URL names, templates, contexts,
  messages, and chooser modal workflows are unchanged.
- Fix the video chooser upload view ignoring the ``CAST_CHOOSER_PAGINATION``
  setting: it paginated with a hardcoded page size of 10 instead of
  ``CHOOSER_PAGINATION`` like every other chooser view (invisible under the
  default of 10, wrong for sites that override the setting).
- Extract the transcript domain into a new ``cast.transcripts`` package: the
  WebVTT/Podlove/DOTe rewrite logic, speaker-sample selection, voice-reference
  derivation, and known-speaker handling now live in Django-free per-format
  modules plus a service layer, and the ``Transcript`` model keeps its public
  API as thin delegates. Public names such as ``time_to_seconds``,
  ``convert_dote_to_podcastindex_transcript``, and the ``KNOWN_SPEAKER_*``
  constants remain importable from ``cast.models.transcript``.
- Refactor the transcript admin edit view to dispatch its POST actions through
  a declarative action→handler map, and deduplicate the
  ``episode_from_latest_revision`` helper that was copied between the
  transcript and Voxhelm admin views. Messages, redirects, and form behavior
  are unchanged.
- Centralize the static ``CAST_*`` setting defaults in a single registry in
  ``cast.appsettings``: the scattered inline ``getattr(settings, ...)``
  defaults now resolve through one accessor (still read at call time, so
  ``override_settings`` and runtime changes keep working), and the
  ``cast.E001`` type check derives from the registry instead of a separately
  maintained table. Defaults and check coverage are unchanged.
- Document all previously undocumented settings in the settings reference,
  including ``CAST_AUDIO_PLAYER``, ``CAST_EDITOR_SCOPES``,
  ``CAST_POST_BODY_BLOCKS``, the comment form CSS-class and moderator
  settings, and the remaining styleguide tunables.
- Split the Voxhelm integration into a ``cast.voxhelm`` subpackage with
  dedicated ``settings`` (the site → Django setting → environment precedence
  chain), ``client`` (HTTP transport), ``task_refs``, and ``service``
  (orchestration) modules. The transcript-generation status helpers move to
  ``cast.transcripts.generation_status``, which removes the circular import
  between ``cast.models`` and the Voxhelm code (a static test now guards that
  nothing imported during model initialisation depends on ``cast.voxhelm``).
  Every previously public name remains importable from ``cast.voxhelm``.
- Show the "Generate transcript" action on the episode and audio edit pages
  only when Voxhelm is actually configured (API base and key resolvable via
  site settings, Django settings, or environment variables) for the request's
  site. Transcript generation status stays visible regardless, and direct
  POST requests keep reporting missing configuration as friendly error
  messages.
- Deduplicate ``feeds.py``: the shared ``item_description``/``item_link``/
  ``item_pubdate`` methods and the Atom stylesheet ``write()`` now live in one
  place, the iTunes/Podcast-Index generator mixins are statically typed
  (no more ``# type: ignore`` or defensive ``try/except``), and podcast feed
  XML output is unchanged.
- Complete the strict mypy annotation rollout. The configured mypy source set
  now enables both ``disallow_incomplete_defs`` and
  ``disallow_untyped_defs`` globally after the final blocks, page model, and
  styleguide slices reached clean project-level probes.
- Blog (non-podcast) RSS and Atom feeds now emit a stable per-entry
  identifier and publication dates: RSS items gain ``<pubDate>`` and a
  ``<guid isPermaLink="false">`` set to the post's UUID, and Atom entries gain
  ``<updated>`` and a UUID ``<id>``. Feed readers may show existing blog
  entries as new once, after which the UUID identifier survives slug and URL
  changes.
- Document ``cast.api.views`` as a frozen legacy API surface (including the
  bare-text ``POST /api/upload_video/`` response); new integrations should use
  the editor API for structured errors, scoped authorization, and ``If-Match``
  revision handling.
- Stop shipping test-only settings in the installed package. The former
  ``cast.settings`` module (committed ``SECRET_KEY``, ``tests.urls`` root
  URLconf, MD5 hasher) now lives entirely in ``tests/settings.py``, and
  ``dev_settings.py`` is renamed to ``dev_tools.py`` to reflect its role as a
  feature-flag resolver rather than a settings module. ``django-environ`` is
  dropped from the dependencies. This is an internal packaging change with no
  effect on configuring a real django-cast site.
- Give the repository cache serialization an explicit ``type`` discriminator
  instead of guessing a cached object's class from which keys are present.
  Blog/podcast and post/episode entries now record their type and deserialize
  by it, with a fallback that keeps entries cached by earlier versions working.
- Generate ``django-cast-quickstart`` project files from packaged templates
  instead of large inline Python strings, and add a smoke test that the
  generated project passes Django's system check. The quickstart command's
  user-visible behavior is unchanged.
